release: add release notes for v0.9.0-alpha1 (#217)
confidential-containers/confidential-containers: releases/v0.9.0-alpha1.md

Release Date: June 21st, 2024

This release is based on [3.6.0](https://github.com/kata-containers/kata-containers/releases/tag/3.4.0) of Kata Containers
and [v0.9.1](https://github.com/confidential-containers/enclave-cc/releases/tag/v0.9.0) of enclave-cc.

This is an alpha release, with some limitations, but it builds significantly on the previous release.
For a full feature set, please use v0.8.0 or the upcoming v0.9.0.
For details of what has been added and what does not yet work,
see the following sections.

Please see the [quickstart guide](../quickstart.md) for details on how to try out Confidential
Containers.

Please refer to our [Acronyms](https://github.com/confidential-containers/documentation/wiki/Acronyms)
and [Glossary](https://github.com/confidential-containers/documentation/wiki/Glossary) pages for
definitions of the acronyms used in this document.

## What's new

* Cloud API Adaptor (peer pods) included the release and based on Kata main.
* Image pulling inside the guest via the nydus snapshotter is more stable.
* Platform support has been partially restored.
* Confidential runtime classes ship with filesystem sharing disabled by default.

> * `kata-qemu-coco-dev` runtime class introduced for nontee development.

Reviewer: A few other things we could mention:

* introduced config for guest-components processes (https://github.com/kata-containers/kata-containers/pull/9749)
* Various improvements and fixes to genpolicy (@danmihai1 might have the right words)

  * Nydus snapshotter is not supported with enclave-cc.
* Pulling container images inside guest may have negative performance implications including greater resource usage and slower startup.
* `crio` support is still evolving.
* Platform support is rapidly changing
* SELinux is not supported on the host and must be set to permissive if in use.
* Complete integration with Kubernetes is still in progress.
  * OpenShift support is not yet complete.
  * Existing APIs do not fully support the CoCo security and threat model. [More info](https://github.com/confidential-containers/community/issues/53)
  * Some commands accessing confidential data, such as `kubectl exec`, may either fail to work, or incorrectly expose information to the host
* The CoCo community aspires to adopting open source security best practices, but not all practices are adopted yet.
  * We track our status with the OpenSSF Best Practices Badge, which improved to 75% at the time of this release.
  * Community has adopted a security reporting protocol, but application and documentation of static and dynamic analysis still needed.
* Container metadata such as environment variables are not measured.

> * Kata Agent does not validate mount requests. A malicious host might be able to mount a shared filesystem into the PodVM.

Reviewer: There is this https://github.com/kata-containers/kata-containers/pull/9268#issuecomment-1994668035 from @danmihai1 highlighting that CreateContainer hooks are unsafe for CoCo, thus a think a limitation worth to document.

Author: Ok, I made a more general bullet about dangerous API endpoints and policy.

# Release Notes for v0.9.0-alpha1

Release Date: June 21st, 2024

This release is based on [3.6.0](https://github.com/kata-containers/kata-containers/releases/tag/3.4.0) of Kata Containers
and [v0.9.1](https://github.com/confidential-containers/enclave-cc/releases/tag/v0.9.0) of enclave-cc.

This is an alpha release, with some limitations, but it builds significantly on the previous release.
For a full feature set, please use v0.8.0 or the upcoming v0.9.0.
For details of what has been added and what does not yet work,
see the following sections.

Please see the [quickstart guide](../quickstart.md) for details on how to try out Confidential
Containers.

Please refer to our [Acronyms](https://github.com/confidential-containers/documentation/wiki/Acronyms)
and [Glossary](https://github.com/confidential-containers/documentation/wiki/Glossary) pages for
definitions of the acronyms used in this document.

## What's new

> * Cloud API Adaptor (peer pods) included the release and based on Kata main.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Cloud API Adaptor (peer pods) is included in the release and based on Kata main.
```

not all features are enabled for all platforms and test coverage
is limited.

## Limitations

The following are known limitations of this release:

* Encryped and signed images are not yet supported.
* Sealed secrets and encrypted volumes are not yet supported.
* SEV(-ES) and SEV-SNP do not support attestaation.
* Nydus snapshotter support is not mature.
  * Nydus snapshotter sometimes fails to pull an image.
  * Nydus snapshotter cannot handle pods with init containers.
  * Host pulling with Nydus snapshotter is not yet enabled.
  * Nydus snapshotter is not supported with enclave-cc.
* Pulling container images inside guest may have negative performance implications including greater resource usage and slower startup.
* `crio` support is still evolving.
* Platform support is rapidly changing
* SELinux is not supported on the host and must be set to permissive if in use.
* The format of encrypted container images is still subject to change
  * The [oci-crypt](https://github.com/containers/ocicrypt) container image format itself may still change
  * The tools to generate images are not in their final form
  * The image format itself is subject to change in upcoming releases

>   * Not all image repositories support encrypted container images.

Reviewer 3: We don't support encrypted images, so maybe that is worth mentioning and not the format of them?

Author: First entry mentions encrypted + signed images. I will just get rid of this section for now because limitations of encrypted images (which aren't specific to this project) don't really matter when we can't use encrypted images.

  * Existing APIs do not fully support the CoCo security and threat model. [More info](https://github.com/confidential-containers/community/issues/53)
  * Some commands accessing confidential data, such as `kubectl exec`, may either fail to work, or incorrectly expose information to the host
* The CoCo community aspires to adopting open source security best practices, but not all practices are adopted yet.

>   * We track our status with the OpenSSF Best Practices Badge, which improved to 75% at the time of this release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * We track our status with the OpenSSF Best Practices Badge, which remained at 75% at the time of this release.
```

* The CoCo community aspires to adopting open source security best practices, but not all practices are adopted yet.
  * We track our status with the OpenSSF Best Practices Badge, which improved to 75% at the time of this release.
  * Community has adopted a security reporting protocol, but application and documentation of static and dynamic analysis still needed.
* Container metadata such as environment variables are not measured.
* Kata Agent does not validate mount requests. A malicious host might be able to mount a shared filesystem into the PodVM.

> 

Reviewer 3: Should we mention lack of support for pulling images in authenticated registry and validation of signed container images?
